README.md, before:

# Ancile - Use-Based Privacy for applications

This project implements the following paper: 

Eugene Bagdasaryan, Griffin Berlstein, Jason Waterman, Eleanor Birrell, 
Nate Foster, Fred B. Schneider, Deborah Estrin, 2019
[Ancile: Enhancing Privacy for Ubiquitous Computing with
Use-Based Privacy](https://ebagdasa.github.io/assets/files/ancile.pdf), WPES.

### Table of Contents
1. [Design](#design)
2. [Use Case](#usecase)
3. [Policy Language](#policylang)
4. [Installation](#docs/source/installation.md)
5. [Contributors](#contributors)

## System design <a name="design"></a>

Ancile is a framework that enables control over application's
data usage with privacy policies. We currently support Python and 
work with any OAuth service. Essentially, our system is a middleware 
between the data source (e.g. mail server, location data server, etc)
and some application created by the third-party.  

Our system allows the application to submit an arbitrary Python program that
requests data from the data source. Ancile upon getting this program fetches
the policy and access tokens associated with the user and the data source.
Ancile attempts to execute application's program in a restricted environment
enforcing the policies. If the program completes without policy violations the 
result of the program is returned back to the application.

![system logo](docs/source/system.png)

**Use-based privacy** ([Birrell et al.](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/fbs/publications/UBP.avanance.pdf))
focuses on preventing harmful uses (**[NYTimes](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/12/10/business/location-data-privacy-apps.html)**)
rather than restricting 
access to data. The application gets to use all necessary data for non-harmful
purposes. Each datapoint in Ancile has a policy that specifies what uses 
are permitted. Furthermore, this framework utilizes **reactive** approach meaning 
that after performing transformations on data policy will change. 

## Use Case <a name="usecase"></a>

1. **Company's data** -- data collected by the company's internal services such as
emails, location data, etc. Novel third-party applications propose new services
such as optimizing workplaces, person/room finders, depression/suicide preventions. 
However, these services require access to sensitive data, but usually given access
is too broad for the needs of the applications. For example, a service that
provides information on nearby available rooms does not need constant access to user
location data.  Unrestricted 
release of raw data can lead to malicious uses where the user 
location is accessed after hours or outside of the office. Ancile can 
address this problem by defining a policy on user's location data 
that shares data only at specific hours or at the specific location.
    
## Sample workflow

We define three roles: 
* **Admin** - responsible for configuring Ancile, approving applications, maintaining user policies
* **Application** -- needs user's sensitive data
* **User** -- possesses sensitive information available through OAuth endpoints

Once Ancile is installed we assume the following sample workflow: 

1. Admin configures Ancile and connects OAuth-enabled data sources
1. User registers on Ancile and performs OAuth-authentication with required data sources.
1. Application developer registers on Ancile 
1. User picks a policy associated with the application and connected data source
1. Application sends a Python program that requests user's data 
1. Ancile executes the program with the associated policy and if successful returns the data
back to the application otherwise return error.
    
## Policy language <a name="policylang"></a>

Policies define an automata that changes on operations with data. For example, 
applying transformation that fuzzes the location can enable a bigger set of 
further operations on this data.

Our policy is defined as a regular expression over an alphabet of operations 
(Python commands) using the following operations:

1. **Sequence** -- `commandA . commandB` declares that the program has two call
`commandB` only after calling `commandB`. 
2. **Union** -- `commandA + commandB` either of both commands can be invoked.
3. **Intersection** -- `commandA & commandB` both commands need to match.
4. **Iteration** -- `commandA*` command can be repeated multiple times.
5. **Negation** -- `!commandA` can be any command except `commandA`.

We use **[Brzozowski derivatives](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brzozowski_derivative)**
approach that allows to advance the regular expression when calling a command.
Brzozowski defines two key operations: D-step that applies when any command is invoked and 
E-step that applies only when the application wants to get data back from Ancile.  

### Data Policy Pair

In Ancile data travels with the policy in a special container: *DataPolicyPair*. 
This object is protected using RestrictedPython framework. To obtain data from the user
 the developer submits the following program:

```python
dpp = fetch_data(user=user('user@abcd.com'))
```

That puts fetched data into the object `dpp`. The developer can only execute 
functions that are allowed by the policy framework. For example, if the policy specifies:
`transform.return_to_app` for some commands `transform` and `return_to_app`
 then the following program will work:

```python
dpp1 = transform(data=dpp)
return_to_app(dpp1)
``` 

Commands `return_to_app` are special commands that have to run only in the end of the policy 
and if successful Ancile will return data back to the application.  

### Ancile Lib

Ancile supports custom functions as well as normal third-party libraries to be controlled
by the policies. All custom functions have to be defined under `ancile/lib/`. 

We use three different types of functions:

1. Fetch functions: annotated by `@ExternalDecorator()` functions can get OAuth
token for the user and perform external calls
1. Transformation functions: annotated by `@TransformDecorator()` functions take
`DataPolicyPair` object and return transformed `DataPolicyPair` object
1. Return functions: annoted by `UseDecorator()` functions take `DataPolicyPair`
 object and return it back if successful. 
 
 Beyond these functions we as well support conditional and collection operations that we 
 will introduce later.

## Installation

Here are the installation [Instructions](docs/source/installation.md).

We have a development environment running at https://dev.ancile.smalldata.io 
so please free to explore it. There are few tests accounts set up for exploration.

## Contributors <a name="contributors"></a>

* [Eugene Bagdasaryan](https://ebagdasa.github.io/) ([eugene@cs.cornell.edu](mailto:eugene@cs.cornell.edu))
* [Griffin Berlstein](https://github.com/EclecticGriffin)
* [Mohamad Safadieh](https://moha.md/)
* [Corin Rose](https://corin.website/)
* [Jason Waterman](https://www.vassar.edu/faculty/jawaterman/)
* [Eleanor Birrell](http://www.cs.cornell.edu/~eleanor/)
* [Nate Foster](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/~jnfoster/)
* [Fred B. Schneider](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/fbs/)
* [Deborah Estrin](https://destrin.smalldata.io/)

Commit message:

added login for app dev and user dev

README.md, after:

# Ancile - Use-Based Privacy for applications

This project implements the following paper: 

Eugene Bagdasaryan, Griffin Berlstein, Jason Waterman, Eleanor Birrell, 
Nate Foster, Fred B. Schneider, Deborah Estrin, 2019
[Ancile: Enhancing Privacy for Ubiquitous Computing with
Use-Based Privacy](https://ebagdasa.github.io/assets/files/ancile.pdf), WPES.

### Table of Contents
1. [Design](#design)
2. [Use Case](#usecase)
3. [Policy Language](#policylang)
4. [Installation](#docs/source/installation.md)
5. [Contributors](#contributors)

## System design <a name="design"></a>

Ancile is a framework that enables control over application's
data usage with privacy policies. We currently support Python and 
work with any OAuth service. Essentially, our system is a middleware 
between the data source (e.g. mail server, location data server, etc)
and some application created by the third-party.  

Our system allows the application to submit an arbitrary Python program that
requests data from the data source. Ancile upon getting this program fetches
the policy and access tokens associated with the user and the data source.
Ancile attempts to execute application's program in a restricted environment
enforcing the policies. If the program completes without policy violations the 
result of the program is returned back to the application.

![system logo](docs/source/system.png)

**Use-based privacy** ([Birrell et al.](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/fbs/publications/UBP.avanance.pdf))
focuses on preventing harmful uses (**[NYTimes](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/12/10/business/location-data-privacy-apps.html)**)
rather than restricting 
access to data. The application gets to use all necessary data for non-harmful
purposes. Each datapoint in Ancile has a policy that specifies what uses 
are permitted. Furthermore, this framework utilizes **reactive** approach meaning 
that after performing transformations on data policy will change. 

## Use Case <a name="usecase"></a>

1. **Company's data** -- data collected by the company's internal services such as
emails, location data, etc. Novel third-party applications propose new services
such as optimizing workplaces, person/room finders, depression/suicide preventions. 
However, these services require access to sensitive data, but usually given access
is too broad for the needs of the applications. For example, a service that
provides information on nearby available rooms does not need constant access to user
location data.  Unrestricted 
release of raw data can lead to malicious uses where the user 
location is accessed after hours or outside of the office. Ancile can 
address this problem by defining a policy on user's location data 
that shares data only at specific hours or at the specific location.
    
## Sample workflow

We define three roles: 
* **Admin** - responsible for configuring Ancile, approving applications, maintaining user policies
* **Application** -- needs user's sensitive data
* **User** -- possesses sensitive information available through OAuth endpoints

Once Ancile is installed we assume the following sample workflow: 

1. Admin configures Ancile and connects OAuth-enabled data sources
1. User registers on Ancile and performs OAuth-authentication with required data sources.
1. Application developer registers on Ancile 
1. User picks a policy associated with the application and connected data source
1. Application sends a Python program that requests user's data 
1. Ancile executes the program with the associated policy and if successful returns the data
back to the application otherwise return error.
    
## Policy language <a name="policylang"></a>

Policies define an automata that changes on operations with data. For example, 
applying transformation that fuzzes the location can enable a bigger set of 
further operations on this data.

Our policy is defined as a regular expression over an alphabet of operations 
(Python commands) using the following operations:

1. **Sequence** -- `commandA . commandB` declares that the program has two call
`commandB` only after calling `commandB`. 
2. **Union** -- `commandA + commandB` either of both commands can be invoked.
3. **Intersection** -- `commandA & commandB` both commands need to match.
4. **Iteration** -- `commandA*` command can be repeated multiple times.
5. **Negation** -- `!commandA` can be any command except `commandA`.

We use **[Brzozowski derivatives](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brzozowski_derivative)**
approach that allows to advance the regular expression when calling a command.
Brzozowski defines two key operations: D-step that applies when any command is invoked and 
E-step that applies only when the application wants to get data back from Ancile.  

### Data Policy Pair

In Ancile data travels with the policy in a special container: *DataPolicyPair*. 
This object is protected using RestrictedPython framework. To obtain data from the user
 the developer submits the following program:

```python
dpp = fetch_data(user=user('user@abcd.com'))
```

That puts fetched data into the object `dpp`. The developer can only execute 
functions that are allowed by the policy framework. For example, if the policy specifies:
`transform.return_to_app` for some commands `transform` and `return_to_app`
 then the following program will work:

```python
dpp1 = transform(data=dpp)
return_to_app(dpp1)
``` 

Commands `return_to_app` are special commands that have to run only in the end of the policy 
and if successful Ancile will return data back to the application.  

### Ancile Lib

Ancile supports custom functions as well as normal third-party libraries to be controlled
by the policies. All custom functions have to be defined under `ancile/lib/`. 

We use three different types of functions:

1. Fetch functions: annotated by `@ExternalDecorator()` functions can get OAuth
token for the user and perform external calls
1. Transformation functions: annotated by `@TransformDecorator()` functions take
`DataPolicyPair` object and return transformed `DataPolicyPair` object
1. Return functions: annoted by `UseDecorator()` functions take `DataPolicyPair`
 object and return it back if successful. 
 
 Beyond these functions we as well support conditional and collection operations that we 
 will introduce later.

## Installation

Here are the installation [Instructions](docs/source/installation.md).

We have a development environment running at https://dev.ancile.smalldata.io 
so please free to explore it. There are few test accounts set up for exploration.
`user/user_password` and `app/app_password`.

## Contributors <a name="contributors"></a>

* [Eugene Bagdasaryan](https://ebagdasa.github.io/) ([eugene@cs.cornell.edu](mailto:eugene@cs.cornell.edu))
* [Griffin Berlstein](https://github.com/EclecticGriffin)
* [Mohamad Safadieh](https://moha.md/)
* [Corin Rose](https://corin.website/)
* [Jason Waterman](https://www.vassar.edu/faculty/jawaterman/)
* [Eleanor Birrell](http://www.cs.cornell.edu/~eleanor/)
* [Nate Foster](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/~jnfoster/)
* [Fred B. Schneider](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/fbs/)
* [Deborah Estrin](https://destrin.smalldata.io/)
